is is
increasing well let's take you now
straight to Tel Aviv where as you can
see the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinken is standing shaking hands right
now with the Israeli defense minister
yav Galant now blinken has been in Tel
Aviv meeting with a number of Israeli
leaders today we know he's just met with
Galant but as you heard from our
correspondents earlier he also had a
meeting with Netanyahu ahead of his
statement to the knesset now this is a
return visit to Israel for Anthony
blinkin he's been on a diplomatic tour
of the region speaking to a number of
leaders from different Arab countries
trying to pursue some us diplomatic
efforts in the region as we see this war
in Gaza and Israel continue now Anthony
blinkin we do expect um will address the
media very shortly alongside um Mr
Galant we have also been hearing much
speculation especially in the Israeli
media that shortly after after Secretary
of State Lincoln's visit that we may
well see US President Joe Biden also set
foot in
Israel two
week
this war is a war that we will
win for the people of
Israel we will not stop the
war for the
Israelis in our side and and and their
side we will reach every place and we
will win in this war thank you Mr Min
you know
our deep commitment to Israel's right
indeed its obligation to defend itself
and to defend its people and in that you
have and always have the support of the
United
States thank you thank you
very SEC update on
the well a very brief media call there
as we saw the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin um alongside Israeli
defense minister yoav Galant shaking
hands another strong show of solidarity
there from the US as the US Secretary of
State continues his tour of the region
he's rounding up today uh let's now
bring in Hanan ashrawi she is a
Palestinian leader and an activist and
also a former member of the Palestine
Liberation organization's executive
committee she joins us now from rala Dr
asrawi let me start by asking you a
little bit about your reaction to what
you've seen um from us diplomacy over
the last week or so especially the
rhetoric we've been getting out of the
White House um we had one of our um
correspondents and also our analyst
earlier talking about how that's shifted
what do you make of us rhetoric around
this
war well I think they started by
swallowing hookline and sinker the
Israeli version of reality which was
entirely doctored which was entirely
false they immediately accepted this uh
version and they immediately started
repeating mindlessly even all these
stories about people beheaded and
children being killed and women being
raped and so on which climed not just
the uh Public Image but also American
policy in many ways now we know the US
is the absolutely committed to Israel
and is Israel's closest Ally in terms of
Defending it and not just defending but
partnering with it this time they went
too far this time they H maintained the
enabled Israel they pushed as well they
sent in Two For Heaven's Sake two
aircraft carriers and warships and so to
do what
and then not only that but the the
mainstream media in the US picked up
this uh approach and they ended up
maligning the Palestinians giving Israel
a free hand to continue with its War Of
Destruction and they said Israel has the
right to defend itself which became the
refrain that every other Western Country
repeated in the meantime the
Palestinians were demonized dehumanized
excluded Ed and everything that was done
to us particularly in Gaza this brutal
murder the killings the massacres and U
clearly was was condoned and was aided
and Abed by the us then I think the
truth came out sorry you I I want to ask
you about a comment that you made
because you've described what's taking
place in Gaza right now as being close
to genocide I know the University where
you a trustee you published a statement
calling for international intervention
in your mind what does that look
like well I think when you have genocide
that the party committing genocide has
to be stopped first of all immediately
and then has to be held to account
instead of being encouraged and as as I
said supported and aided and ab bettered
genocide is taking place in front of
everybody I mean this is no secret you
are seeing the bonds coming down selling
whole buildings four universities were
totally destroyed the rest are in Gaza
the rest are also damaged Beyond use uh
whole buildings 60 families and more
have been
eradicated uh you I don't want to give
you the numbers you know them 10,000
injured 3,000 killed 1,3 some children
and there are 1200 still rubble and
under the rubble you have 500 children
that cannot be rescued so in many ways
this is a situation that is an unfolding
clear genocide with uh Gaza being uh
totally closed off no water no food no
medicine I'm sorry to interrupt you Dr
asrai I want I want to get clarity from
you on what you mean by International
intervention what would you like to
see as I said I would like to see
intervention in terms of first of of
course I'm not going to see armies
coming and fighting Israel and putting
enter it but at least holding Israel to
account by saying this has to stop
otherwise there is a price to be paid
there are consequences to your actions
when we talk about international law yes
you have to abide by international law
but Israel's impunity has become a
pattern the demonization and
dehumanization of Palestinians is the
other side of the coin of Israel's
impunity and elevated status as Beyond
accountability so this has to happen and
people have to tell them govern instead
of jumping immediately the way the
Europeans and the Americans did and
justifying Israel's genocide and and
giving support political ability and and
so on they should say that is speaking
of government I'm sorry Dr asrai because
I do want to to cover a little bit about
the Palestinian political Dynamics with
you now as well I want to ask you about
the statement that we saw today by abas
because an earlier version of his
comments included explicit mention of
Hamas saying that hamas's policies and
actions do not represent the Palestinian
people but as we can see that's been
removed what's the relationship like now
between the PLO and
Hamas well there has been a rift for
some time since 2006
207 uh the West Bank and Gaza have been
politically separate not just
geographically separate hamash remains
as you know Hamas is a political
movement a party that has both a
military and a political weight and
they've been in a state of rivalry if
not Conflict for a while even though
Hamas did run for elections and did win
uh the majority uh seats I wouldn't say
votes uh in in 2006 but still the issue
is uh that right now you cannot just
abandon uh the Palestinian people by
adopting the language that Hamas did
this and therefore Hamas deserves it and
therefore the people who are oppressing
Palestinians are Hamas this is the
latest by the way refrain from the
Europeans and and Americans that this is
what Hamas did to the Palestinians not
this is what isra Israeli occupation and
bombing and shelling and Siege and
destruction did to the Palestinian
people so I'm not going to uh try to to
parse what Muhammed Abbas did he was
under tremendous pressure at first he
resisted the pressure from blinkin and
Biden to condemn his own people and then
he started it's a tital he's trying to
say the right things not to offend
others and at the same time he knows
that his own people are smarting that
the Palestinian people are traumatized
they are in pain and they are not
willing to see the Palestinian fighters
of whatever faction being maligned or
denounced by any Palestinian let alone
any Arab Dr aswi I do want to ask you a
little bit about about the prospects for
the future too because amid all of the
pain and the suffering and the anger and
the Vengeance in the early days after
the Hamas attack analysts were
speculating that this potentially could
restart and engagement around a peace
process that the dynamic had shifted
that this could be an opportunity do you
agree are you hopeful is there any hope
to be found
here right now I don't well we don't
want a peace process what we want is an
end to this first a process alone has
been ongoing for years and years and we
became victims of a process in which
Israel had a free hand to do whatever it
wanted so let me say it's not hope that
I see I see right now pain Devastation
destruction mass killings genocide but
at the same time I think that the the
public let's say public is Shifting that
people are beginning to see what Israel
has done that all the lies that they fed
the mainstream media and the the
governments have not really uh been been
swallowed by people of conscience by
public opinion and we're seeing
thousands and tens of thousands of
people
demonstrating protesting supporting
Palestine so in a sense there is a gap
between the Western governments and
their own people and it's amazing we
always used to say it's in the Arab
world that you have a gap and that the
leaders do not listen to their people
now it's very clear that countries like
the UK France Germany the US are not
listening to their own people are not in
tune with public opinion and don't
understand that this cannot continue so
the dynamic yes is Shifting and that's
why now they're backtracking a bit they
said they didn't see these burnt
children or whatever beheaded people and
so but they I mean they look ridiculous
Frankly Speaking because this is a case
of a dog of a tail wagging the dog very
clearly whatever the US says to Israel
Israel says we do whatever we want just
continue supplying us with weapons and
with money and with unlimited support
and swallow our version and our
narrative whole this is what's happening
now Ln openly indeed we'll continue
watching that that visit by Anthony
blinkin very closely to the region
Hannah asrawi there a Palestinian leader
and activist as well as a former member
of the Palestinian Liberation
organizations executive committee thank
you so much for joining us here on Al Z
Dr
aswi you're welcome my pleasure